FTP documentation (#516)
files-community/Website: src/routes/docs/configuring/ftp/+page.md

---

> title: Connecting to FTP server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Connecting to FTP servers
```

---

> Files supports connecting to remote FTP and FTPs servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Files has built-in support for connecting to remote FTP and FTPs servers.
```

> This allows you to effortlessly connect to any server that supports these protocols, browse the directory structure, and perform tasks such as uploading, downloading, renaming, and deleting files or folders according to your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows users to effortlessly connect to any server that supports these protocols, browse the directory structure, and perform tasks such as uploading, downloading, renaming, and deleting files or folders according to your needs.
```
What does it mean by downloading and uploading?

Author: I was referring to downloading files from the server and uploading them to it. Although now I think we can skip that.

Reviewer: Doesn't it automatically upload changes?

Reviewer: Btw, it's best to leave conversations unresolved because otherwise it's hard to find the response.

> _Currently Files only supports the FTP and FTPs protocols. SFTP is not supported yet._

Reviewer: Maybe this should be put in a "Known limitations" section at the bottom of the page.

> ## Connecting to FTP server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to connect to a FTP server
```

> You can connect to the remote server by typing in the address bar:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can connect to remote servers from the address bar
```

> - `ftp://<server_address>:<port>` if you want to connect via FTP protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**FTP :** `ftp://<server_address>:<port>`.
```

> - `ftps://<server_address>:<port>` if you want to connect via FTPs protocol.

Reviewer: Same for this

---
title: Connecting to FTP servers
---

Files has built-in support for connecting to remote FTP and FTPs servers.
This allows you to effortlessly connect to any server that supports these protocols, browse the directory structure, and perform tasks such as editing, renaming, and deleting files or folders according to your needs.

## How to connect to FTP servers

You can connect to remote servers from the address bar

**FTP:** `ftp://<server_address>:<port>`.  
**FTPs:** `ftps://<server_address>:<port>`.

If you don't specify the port, the default port will be used:

**FTP:** `21`.  
**FTPs:** `990`.

> Then if dialog appears, enter your credentials or login as anonymous user.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If required, you will be prompted to enter your credentials to login.  
```

> After that, you will be able to view the directory structure of the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> After that, you will be able to view the directory structure of the server.

Reviewer: I'm wondering if this is implied, we might be able to remove this line.

Author: Or maybe we can write that entering credentials (if needed) is the last step?

Reviewer: I meant to remove this line "After that, you will be able to view the directory structure of the server"

Author: Yeah, it will be look better.

## How to disconnect from FTP servers

> To disconnect from the server, close tab or window with the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Closing the tab or window will automatically disconnect from the server.
```

---
title: Connecting to FTP servers
---

Files has built-in support for connecting to remote FTP and FTPs servers.
This allows you to effortlessly connect to any server that supports these protocols, browse the directory structure, and perform tasks such as editing, renaming, and deleting files or folders according to your needs.

> ## How to connect to a FTP server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to connect to FTP servers
```

You can connect to remote servers from the address bar

> **FTP :** `ftp://<server_address>:<port>`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**FTP:** `ftp://<server_address>:<port>`.  
```

> **FTPs :** `ftps://<server_address>:<port>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**FTPs:** `ftps://<server_address>:<port>`.
```

If you don't specify the port, the default port will be used:

> **FTP :** `21`.  
> **FTPs :** `990`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**FTP:** `21`.  
**FTPs:** `990`.
```

Then if dialog appears, enter your credentials or login as anonymous user.  
After that, you will be able to view the directory structure of the server.

> ## Disconnecting from FTP server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to disconnect from FTP servers
```

To disconnect from the server, close tab or window with the server.

## Known limitations

> Currently Files only supports the FTP and FTPs protocols.  
> SFTP is not supported yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SFTP is not currently supported
```
